there is a rarely discussed distinction  between  factual learning and attitudinal  learning in the title of this video  i'm proposing to you a distinction  between military literacy  military illiteracy right  but what i mean by literacy in this case  is understanding what you read i don't  mean that you have memorized  uh a catalog  of the munitions of war right i don't  think that you're someone who knows what  the serial numbers mean on the side of  different kinds of munitions and tanks  i'm not talking about being burdened  with a whole lot of factual learning but  i am talking about  an attitude  talking about  an attitude and a sensitivity towards  the reality of war that i think has to  be cultivated over a lifetime and that i  now see is shockingly absent  from both the journalists and the  political leaders of our time these are  people who don't know war these are  people who don't understand war who  cannot think  in terms of realistic 21st century  warfare and of course their illiteracy  is dangerous  for us all now  start with  an example  some of you will  relate to and understand right away  there is a much more successful youtuber  much more successful than myself there's  a very successful youtuber called adam  something  his formal educational background is in  urban planning  something that's political  nothing to do with war and he lives with  the dangerous delusion  that being an expert in something means  he's an expert in everything and in two  different videos  he picked up the newspaper headline a  claim made by mainstream journalists in  mainstream newspapers oh  um  russian attack helicopters are useless  russian attack helicopters are going to  be completely immobilized and useless  during this conflict because the  ukrainians have shoulder-mounted  missiles because men on foot  will have shoulder mounted  anti-aircraft missiles now  i don't expect any of you  to recognize the brand name of the  hardware i don't expect anybody to  recognize the model number i don't  expect anyone who's engaged in  political and democratic discourse about  these things or engaged in journalism  about these things to be spending time  uh looking through  the back pages of the hardware catalog  that you order these things from looking  at the technical specifications what i  expect people to be able to do  is to reason these things through  to their utmost limits to deal with  the ramifications and implications  of  the assumptions  they carry with them into these  political debates and the factual  assertions they're  making you know even someone like  adam somebody you know  it's probably needless to say he's he is  somebody i i despise so adam something  is actually named  you know he's someone i have a great  deal of contempt for  but i can recognize that in his way  politically he is trying to make the  world a better place another comparison  hassan [ __ ] assan abby someone i have a  lot of content for someone i despise  politically but of course i can  recognize the goodness of his intentions  as now increasingly he finds himself  wading into  the details of how these wars are fought  including specific claims about the  efficacy of shoulder-mounted missiles  now  what do i mean  reasoning things  through  if  shoulder-mounted missiles  if they made attack helicopters  useless  if they made aerial bombardment from  airplanes useless or very limited value  in war  that would have already been true  in the syrian civil war  just a few years ago  that would have already been true  in the american invasion and conquest of  iraq  just a few years before that that would  have already been true  when the afghan people  including the taliban  were fighting against  the soviet union  these types of propaganda claims this  type of hype  for shoulder mounted missiles it goes  all the way back  right you can already find it in  newspapers reporting on our allies in  afghanistan when they were fighting  against  the soviet union now  reason it through think about it now the  most ridiculous thing is this claim is  not only made about  aircraft about the ability of a man on  foot with a shoulder mounted missile to  destroy an attack helicopter  what a claim  just and just visualize yourself just  think it through just flesh out the  fantasy  imagine if it's your life on the line  imagine if you are hiding in a foxhole  with a shoulder-mounted missile and  you've got to get out to take your shot  just visualize it for a minute  you know again sympathy is an analytical  tool i'm not telling you to sympathize  with people just so that you're  overwhelmed  with emotions  but think about the fear and the agony  where your life is going to be traded to  take a pot shot  at an attack helicopter an attack  helicopter that is armed with exactly  the type of anti-personnel weapons  that you have no armor to sustain shots  from forget get i'm trying not to get  detectable deals just start to think  about how implausible that is whether  it's in syria whether it's in you know  ongoing wars in north africa now like  libya or you know uh the use of attack  helicopters in northeast africa and  fighting various forms of muslim  extremists who are there you know attack  helicopters are devastating all these  wars whether it's in iraq whether it's  in afghanistan okay for some reason now  we're fantasizing that these are  tremendously effective weapons from  unarmored men on foot to use they're  going to hide in a foxhole pop out and  they're going to destroy an attack  helicopter they're going to destroy a  bomber for a fighter jet  screeching overhead you know there's a  lot of things to visualize here and if  you've seen footage of this  you know when someone fires a gun  or just a rifle a normal rifle right  you'll notice you can't really see the  bullet exiting the muzzle of the rifle  it's too fast to really be captured on  screen but when they fire these missiles  especially as the missile is first  leaving  it's quite slow isn't it you can really  see it taking off more like a model  rocket  think about that  think about how much time there is for  this  attack helicopter and it won't be alone  right for this squadron of attack  helicopters so this this group of you  know airplanes are attack helicopter  even more astonishingly these propaganda  claims are being made and they're being  repeated on social media about men on  foot  and their ability to disable  and conquer  tanks  armored tanks  armored personnel carriers that  allegedly these russian tanks  they're useless they're helpless now  because men on foot can just use a  shoulder mounted  missile  you know an astonishing  an astonishing ridiculous  propaganda  claim you know and again if that were  true  if that were to just reason it through  think about the last 50 years of warfare  think about any of the discussions that  have been going on about wars in your  life why would it only be true now why  is it that suddenly  suddenly shoulder-mounted missiles used  by men on foot now  the fundamental point i want to get at  here is i already can't see that in the  description this video  um  before i even had a youtube channel  i got out and promoted this hashtag  hasht hashtag socratic method is dead  now partly it's a joke it is partly  something i joke around about but it's  partly something really serious i try to  draw attention to i think in the 21st  century most people do not have anyone  with them in their lives that they can  where they can challenge each other and  really reason things through this way  like unfortunately i feel that the era  of socratic method is dead it certainly  doesn't happen in universities it  certainly doesn't it's not a reality  that universities professors will take  the time to sit with their students and  reason these things through i think what  i just said to you you can maybe imagine  hypothetically a very kindly university  professor very generous with his or her  time sitting down and talking to a  student a student who was influenced by  hassan [ __ ] or influenced by we just  have vaush being mentioned influenced by  mainstream newspapers but maybe  influenced by youtube or like uh uh adam  something  you know and said okay look so i know  you've read this about these shoulder  missiles i know you've read all these  things about the the success of the  ukrainian people and resisting russian  congress okay but have you have you  thought this through okay but if that  were true you know  if that were true then this would also  be true right  this i know this is not using a really  narrow definition of socratic dialogue  i'm using it in its broadest sense where  you end up  challenging each other or challenging  yourself to really reason things through  fully the term used in a more academic  context they always say to tease out  uh ambiguities tease out implicit  assumptions i don't i don't real this is  very british to me to tease something  out i don't you know i i guess what when  you have curly hair you you tease out  your hair as you're as you're combing it  is that what the image comes from yeah  melissa i'm asking melissa melissa's  hair and does anyone in the audience  have hair can anyone  yes teasing your hair so yes you tease  your hair to make it more volume  okay  so melissa says you tease your hair to  make it have more volume and not to make  it straighter  okay  i'm just pointing at the implicit  metaphor  of of speaking about teasing out you  know i do very little to my hair so i'm  sorry if i don't if i don't know the  proper terminology  we have 26 people in the audience none  of you have hair no  hit the thumbs up if you have a second  guys it helps more people join the  broadcast as it's going and help more  people discover it later uh too but i'm  glad to have you all here and obviously  you know it's it's hard to make time for  these things it's hard for me to make  time to do this broadcast  and i understand for you guys it's hard  but i hope i hope this has this kind of  function in your lives also i think it's  something tremendously important about  really challenging yourself to think  these things through all the way and  deal with the implications of the  political positions you've adopted to  deal with the implications  of the solutions to problems that you  yourself propose that you yourself  espouse because my fundamental concern  that i'm expressing through this hashtag  socratic method is dead my fundamental  concern is that we live in an era now  where people make bold declarations on  instagram people make bold declarations  on twitter and my my experience is  even in the university classroom people  stand up and make bold declarations that  sound very much like a statement on  twitter on instagram it's just it's  instagram in real life  and then they they sit down  and that is it there's this kind of  single stage of a declaration single  stage of analysis and nobody is really  willing to think through and challenge  okay okay but if that were true if that  were a good solution let's have some  more dominoes  fall here let's really think through the  implications so there are a lot of this  a lot of these examples kind of in my  own life and where this is the role i  play for other people in as much as i  have time to engage in in this broadest  sense you know um socratic dialogue i  had a long time supporter of the channel  talked to me in the last few days you  guys might have seen him in the comment  section here uh his name is manan goenka  so he's  his name has been used bubble here so i  feel fine to say it  he was asking me about united nations  policy  uh basically in alleviating starvation  and the term used in the industry is  quote-unquote food security so initially  i've talked about my youtube channel  years ago it is something i know about  is i have experience but totally  different topic  but you know right off the bat a lot of  what i'm doing in that conversation is  saying to him and he did appreciate this  he thanked me repeatedly i said well you  know look most of what you're going to  hear from the united nations most of  what you're going to hear from these  charities and partner agencies it's a  very peculiar kind of propaganda and  let's think about it if what they were  saying were true  this this and this would also be true in  fact  you know  um  you know my point being here it may seem  tremendously vague  to say oh you have to think things  through  to their to their conclusions you have  to think them through to the utmost  limits and consequences of of what they  what they mean  uh but it becomes quite precise  as soon as we're dealing with any  specific example this way  what would it mean if attack helicopters  were made obsolete by shoulder-mounted  rockets that would have all kinds of  consequences and we would have seen  those consequences already in syria and  afghanistan in iraq et cetera how can  that possibly be true now  and only now and again reasoning through  what if it were me what if i were on the  battlefield how would i get close enough  to a column of tanks to use this and  then how would i get away with my life  afterwards if i managed to pop out of a  foxhole where i've been concealed by  camouflaging where no one discovered me  it's very likely to be discovered i pau  and i got one shot  with one shoulder mounted miss up  before the tank i'm targeting shoots me  or the three other tanks in the column  shoot me how effective is that really  how effective can that be and you know  if it were true  if it were true that shoulder-mounted  missiles are so effective against tanks  why why aren't they all just men on foot  wouldn't it be way more effective a  thousand men marching on foot without  armored personnel carriers why do you  think we do like there are all these  knock-on consequences to the hypothesis  to the way the problem is being  formulated and to the into the solution  now i know this comparison to  starvation and food insecurity it may  seem like a stretch okay one is war  and one is dealing with very technical  hardware in war okay that's that's one  type of conversation and then  there are humanitarian claims made about  people needing food like isn't that  isn't that straightforward  no no no  they are very similar because in both  cases what you're trying to justify  basically are governments committing  millions of dollars sometimes instead of  a government it's a big charity uh the  bill gates foundation or something like  sometimes there's a big church that  really kind of behaves like a government  has so much money and you're trying to  say to the bill gates foundation or any  charity like this or you may be saying  to say the european union  uh you know as a federal representative  of many different governments okay  here's our situation in northwestern  laos here's a situation in northeast  cambodia and this is why we want you to  give us 10 million dollars to deal with  starvation to deal with food  and is the problem  starvation is the problem food and  scrutiny is this the solution all right  it's really much more slippery it's much  more difficult to deal with  than  these claims about military tactics uh  you know just give you an example  i have worked in i have lived in slept  in  i've worked in  villages that were officially listed as  starving  and we're my own charity and weren't the  only ones but we had big sacks of rice  with the united nations world food  program logo on them and we're handing  these sacks of rice to starving  quote-unquote starving people didn't say  this they're starving on paper they're  starving by decree  [Laughter]  they're de joure  starving  okay but i'm there on foot  i'm there in person first problem  these people own  farms  okay they're not farm workers they're  not factory workers they're not living  in a refugee camp they're not you know  the proletariat it's the last one but  they'd like to say as marxists like  they're not nomads they're not homeless  all right now in every society even in  the third world society owning a farm is  wealth  and if you were starving your options  would include selling the farm right and  in case you didn't know farms also  produce food  they just  it's not all they produce you can  produce cloth they can produce all kinds  of things too there are other kinds of  small cottage industries like weaving on  these farms like you know weaving is an  example of a cottage industry on a farm  there's there's real money okay i got  another problem for you  they own motorcycles  they own shoes  they own cellular phones  and they have connection to a cellular  phone network now what does starvation  mean  what does food insecurity mean i'm there  in person  there is a store  selling food i'm i'm buying food store  right  you could in theory  get trade your cell phone for food you  could sell your motorcycle and buy food  that's not the reality of the situation  here there's a much more difficult to  understand kind of political agenda that  the government of laos is pursuing that  the government the european union is  pursuing that you know a number of  different kind of foreign governments  are involved in there was a case i  personally wasn't involved in but i had  a friend who was involved in the  northeast of laos where specifically the  government of france  it was their development project right  you have but you have a number of  different powerful wealthy actors  and most of the people on the ground  aren't like  me  brief digression just exactly what  sentence  there was a project in vientiane the  capital city of laos  millions of dollars  to preserve a swamp u.n partner agencies  involved right  wetlands  biodiversity  in the wetlands i'm there  in person  and i know  the wetland does not exist  it's a construction site  a chinese company  very directly like the communist part of  china the chinese government  a chinese company is building a sports  stadium a number of apartment buildings  i think there's also a supermarket  showing there's new roads it's it's an  active part of urban development this  this swamp this quote unquote wetlands  right now i didn't have this  conversation directly myself i talked to  someone else in the humanitarian sector  who said oh yeah yeah i know the guys  who run that project  and you know i said to them well you  know so this is obviously all a slight  paraphrase how can this project go on  how can you have international funding  to save  the wetlands when the wetlands  don't exist  now their understandings had followed  that story over a couple of years  at the time the funding proposal went in  you know at the time this project was  was proposed and international funding  was secure and there were meetings with  those with the united nations or exactly  where they were  far distant lines at that time the  wetlands did exist  and apparently i mean i was told the  second hand the guy's attitude was  our number one priority  is not to save  wild animals our number one priority is  not biodiversity conservation our number  one priority is not any particular swamp  right our number one priority  is to keep our office  open  particular forests come and go  particular wetlands  that's my agenda  his agenda  was to get the salaries of his employees  paid to get his own salary paid right to  keep  the office open to keep the project  ongoing  even if the swamp only exists on on  paper this is the swamp by the creek  this is a wetland by the great even if  though the wild animals and the  biodiversity you're conserving is  completely  fictional okay i know it might sound  ridiculous  but  like who else who other than me  would go to that village and say the  problem isn't  the scarcity of food  food here is not scary and the problem  isn't even the poverty  of the people  and now i can tell you what the problem  is it's this this this and and a lot of  the answer to that question what the  problem is is very disturbing it's very  politically upsetting to everyone  involved it's a lot of things people  don't want to think about don't don't  want to talk about  um  so  you know if that sounds far-fetched to  you that people would  lie about that  you know  there's money involved  but there's not just  money involved  there's the combination of money  and the holier-than-thou ego trip of  being a hero  all right  and money corrupts most people you know  what corrupts the rich  you know what corrupts people who are  already born with money  it's that holier than that we go trip  it's  it is the delusion it is the ego trip  right it is this kind of false morality  right it's  being able to present yourself as a hero  that's what got her okay and that is a  massive motivating factor for people in  the military people in government  service people in the united nations  people in humanitarian agencies elected  and unelected people in government  bureaucrats okay they want to be a hero  so it's not as simple as saying they're  going to fake it just to get this next  just to get this next paycheck  um  [Music]  okay  the level of disinformation  the level of  self-deception  and intentional deception of others in a  time of war it's gonna be even higher  it's gonna be in the next level  my mother  is in some ways  a typical marxist  in some ways extraordinary in some ways  exceptional if you have really known  marxists  is very different from reading their  work on paper if you really know marx  says face to face one of the stunning  and strange things about them  is that in this  subtle way  they are  pro-slavery so something marx has said  at the beginning of my whole life i've  heard this from different nuances is  that what they believe in  is you know  dialectical materialism they believe  that history passes through a series of  successive stages in which one  development  enables and makes possible the next it  is entirely common for marxists to say  that they regard slavery in the united  states of america as something positive  something that made the wealth and world  domination of the united states america  possible that america was a kind of  slavery fueled empire that it was only  thanks to only because of the slavery  that the united states of america you  know engaged in that you know  they become wealthy and successful  oh  [Music]  socratic method is dead  so tell me  within the united states of america  before the civil war  what was the wealthiest area  and what was the poorest  the areas that had  slavery  were they  wealthier  than the areas that did not in the 50  years or 100 years after  the civil war  what were the wealthier areas and what  were the poor  over a few more centuries  when you compare the history of the  united states of america  to the history  of south america  let's just say the whole spanish empire  in south america because today they're  all separate countries but in the past  they were closely linked parts of the  spanish empire you know havana cuba was  this great center for slave trading that  was connected to the whole of the  caribbean the whole of south america  what the countries that are today  venezuela so on and so forth they were  all linked to havana cuba and they were  linked to spain  why  why do you think it is  why do you think it is that the places  that had the most slavery  and that sustained and continued it for  the longest  are today poorer  than the countries that had less slavery  well the percentage of their population  that was slaves was less and that ended  it  first it's a it's a fascinating theory  you've got there but boy if that were  true  right  hmm  south america should be wealthier than  north american should have been at every  stage like century by century or decade  by decade that should be the pattern  we've seen gee  why is it that england  became wealthier  than egypt  right  egypt had slavery first and it continued  having slavery the longest like for many  more years or centuries however you want  to put it right egypt has a better  climate has a better location incredible  location on the mediterranean in terms  of trade trade going in all four  directions right the advantages  of the egyptian empire  century by century over the long haul  right and if you think  slavery is an advantage egypt should  have consistently dominated every  century as they went past right  egypt should be the most powerful  fabulous place in the world today to  have nothing but disadvantages compared  to the northwestern corner of europe  compared to the dutch  you know  gee she great great theory cool theory  bro  thinking things through  all the way  to their utmost extreme dealing with  the implications dealing with the  consequences of our assumptions in  politics of the solutions  we're proposing  you know  see it's  it's not  something as simple as socratic dialogue  in the  you know university textbook  since the term right  but there's something really important  here and i'm not going to say there was  a golden age before the internet like  i'm not going to say oh things were so  much better before but i'll tell you  something before the internet  people used to talk about politics while  sitting around a table and playing cards  like people did have more face-to-face  interactions with people and they had  the experience of someone saying you  don't know what the [ __ ] you're talking  about  and and dealing with that  the internet has made the world better  in many ways i i ordered this t-shirt on  the internet  i ordered this book on the internet you  know i wouldn't have this book without  it maybe it's a bad book i don't know  yet  you know um  there are ways in which the internet has  made the world a better place right but  i'm very concerned about the way in  which it's enabled  a certain kind of self-righteous  ignorance of people who go through their  whole lives and they never have to think  things through they never have to deal  with the implications of their beliefs  now in case you didn't get the the  subtext  you know  um  i am indeed  you know suggesting to you  that the whole marxist view  of  the material development of capitalism  from so that that it's all [ __ ] that  it's deeply incoherent it's not just  morally wrong that it's kind of  economically and and factually wrong  right  but there's a necessary next step here  where we question  our motivations where we question the  morality  of what we're saying and what we're  saying  why would anyone say  that russian attack helicopters are  worthless that they're useless  there's motivation there and there's a  moral  choice  about what kind of person  you're going to be why would anyone say  that ukraine is winning the war this  comes back to the title of this video it  comes back to you  why would anyone say that why would  anyone even say it's a deadlock or it's  it's even that it's like 50 50 with both  sides  um  [Music]  if ukraine  had conquered  half of the crimea  in the last few weeks  then maybe 50 50. right you'd be able to  say hey look you know russia has taken  50 percent of western ukraine whatever i  say but at the same time  the ukrainian troops made in advance  they made an invasion and they conquered  half of luhansk and half of doneness and  half of uh crimea they conquered half of  the areas the russians had formally held  the russians  have mortar  and artillery fire  trained  on  kiev  trained on mariopol trained on odessa  trained on every single major city in  ukraine  do the ukrainians have have any  artillery fire hitting  moscow right now  do the ukrainians have  you know batteries of mortars  set up and firing on st petersburg  have the ukrainians simultaneously  pressed into russian territory in  retaliation have the ukrainians even  taken a chunk of uh belarus  oh you think it's even  like you think it's 50 50 you think it's  or you think  you think the ukrainians are winning  you think the ukrainians are in a  position to force the russians  to sign a treaty  that would give back  donetsk luhansk  the crimea you think that that would be  winning  do you think the ukrainians are one inch  closer to in that sense winning this is  war  literacy this is military literacy this  is just thinking through all the way the  implications of the things we assume  and say thinking through fully the way  we've defined the problem the way we're  we're talking about  the solution  and you know the extent to which it's  not just the left wing you know the left  the right the center mainstream  journalists mainstream politicians the  extent to which  those people  are detached from the reality of war  is terrifying all right i am afraid  you know i'm not afraid so much of the  weakness of our leadership i'm afraid of  you know the weakness of our of our  followership  my father you know grew up surrounded  by  world war ii veterans  uh his own school teachers  i think all of them he had school  teachers who were  physically scarred  from world war one even not just world  war ii  people who had disabilities from the  wars  my father went and visited  europe as a teenager  when the aftermath of world war ii was  kind of still on the ground  you know buildings were still under  reconstruction and this kind of thing  still it was over don't even wrong it  wasn't been over for years but the the  consequences of that and i remember he  told me how you know how bitterly the  germans were still hated  and how he was hated  when he spoke german he could he knew a  few words of german as he was you know  casey you know he was a white canadian  who spoke english as his first language  you know um  he should have been speaking french  but you know as he was traveling around  europe this he was he was doing the  backpacker  tourism of his day and you know i do  think one of the defining  problems in my father's life  is that he never got this  cloud of oblique out of his life  he never escaped the shadow of the sense  that he was a coward  because he never fought  he never fought for anything he believed  in he didn't fight you know obviously he  was too young during world war ii but  you know he didn't fight in world war ii  he didn't fight in any of the wars that  came and went after that and that  instead you know what he did was he  developed himself into this very  insincere  smart alec communist  he developed himself into someone who  supposedly you know was too pure  to take a side in the vietnam war you  know and uh if you lived through those  years it was one war after another it  wasn't just the future you know the cold  war contained within it a whole lot of  hot wars you know well what about what  about the korean war what about you know  get into really dealing with a decade by  decade you know conflict by by conflict  i think it is completely true of my  father that he never dealt with the  shallow questions  of what it means  to be a man to be a real man all the  toxic masculinity  built into that and he also never moved  on to dealing with the deeper and more  profound  questions you know now i'm not using  this to i could launch into a deeper  lengthier critique of my father's  psychology uh if you guys are interested  ask some questions i see a few questions  coming into the chat you know um  i'm a nihilist i specifically  preach  a philosophy called historical nihilism  it's not just a political philosophy it  includes a philosophy of the self  philosophy of the life of the mind  philosophy of what it means to be a  distant intellectual how to live  as a distant intellectual how to live as  an artist philosophy of art there's a  lot to it it's not just  you know politics or political science  but sure the main thing we talk about on  this channel under the heading of  historical nihilism is my nihilistic  approach to politics i think  you know one day after i made a video  here on youtube it was a live stream in  which i was really explaining to you the  ways in which all the propaganda claims  about ukraine are [ __ ]  you know  going back to the very fundamental  question of what is the difference  between russia and ukraine anyway what  is the difference between the russian  language and the ukrainian language is  this worth killing and dying for you  know  like i'm willing to question in a  nihilistic way to what extent is  vladimir putin right to what extent is  vibrant right when he says the ancient  origin of the russian people is in  kievan rus  you know look it up guys to what extent  is vladimir putin right when he says  that the russian people and the  ukrainian people have always been one  people and they should be one nation to  what extent is that as my point being as  unsympathetic as vladimir putin is as  evil as vladimir putin is to what extent  might he be right in some of these  propaganda claims and then  even if he's wrong  does this justify  you risking your life  like it's one thing to say oh yeah yeah  putin's wrong 50 000 people should die  to prove the point  what if it's you my dude what if it's  your son your daughter  what if you have some skin in the game  what if you're risking your blood or  even look guys like maybe two percent of  people die in combat in war like two  percent of people who sign up a lot of  people spend the whole [ __ ] war just  boiling potatoes  you can sign up for the army you spend  the whole [ __ ] time boiling potatoes  you know you work in the kitchen and you  you know your life is not really online  that way but still you sign up for a  three year contract and you you lose  three years of your life boiling  potatoes shining boots shoveling ditches  are you willing to risk three years of  your life  no danger let's just say hypothetically  you're you you never face a bullet or a  gun or a bomb or a  blade  let's let's just put let's just say  hypothetically three years of boredom  in a military camp are you willing to  risk that or you were willing to risk  that for your son or or for your  daughter  why  to fight for the future of ukrainian  independence but this is my point guys i  believe it was the day after i made that  video  which you know it discussed it for many  it's i think it's more than an hour long  that video  discuss it from many different angles in  a nuanced way but it certainly has this  nihilistic element running through it  okay the day after  i got in touch with canadian military  recruiting and i got in touch with  ukrainian  military recruiting i showed that email  to some friends i wrote an email saying  look  i'm 43 years old i don't speak the  ukrainian language but  you know here's what i have going for me  you know are you guys willing to take me  on you want to let me join the ukrainian  army okay  to fight  for a cause  i don't  believe in  all right being a nihilist  isn't about being lazy  being a nihilist certainly isn't about  being a pacifist i can sit here and  cynically keep scorn on this propaganda  notion that ukraine represents democracy  whereas  you know russia represents tyranny that  you like you know that russia  represents a corrupt bad regime whereas  ukraine represents a morally pure  incorruptible regime oh oh does anyone  remember poroshenko does anyone remember  you know  uh i'm going to get her name wrong julia  team of  sorry jesus  yulia  julia timoshenko yes poroshenko  it's a long time ago does anyone  remember what ukraine was like before  2014  and then how suddenly after the maidan  protest suddenly basically in 2015  you know ukraine starts to fashion  itself ukraine starts to present itself  as this martyr  for western democracy for for supporting  western europe the eu so  i can sit here and i can set out for you  a whole nihilistic analysis  of what's wrong what's [ __ ] about  these propaganda claims and i just did  set out for you why it's [ __ ] to  pretend like the ukrainian soldiers are  invulnerable because they have  shoulder-mounted rockets when they're  fighting against attack helicopters and  tanks i can say it's [ __ ] it's  [ __ ] it's [ __ ]  and at the end of that conversation i'm  gonna ask you what now what next  and i for my part i actually did write  in to volunteer that's to be on a it's  going to be on my cia  [ __ ] rap sheets if the cia has a file  on me there's going to be a footnote to  a footnote at this date he talked to  canadian military recruiters on this  date he talked to the ukrainian military  recruiters you know to report this  because i can say this is all [ __ ] i  don't believe in any of it and then i  can ask myself okay what what can i do  to make things better what can i do  what's my what's my part so guys by the  way this may seem like a totally  unrelated example it's it's related  profoundly  do you think i believe in  american indian spirituality  do you think i have any [ __ ] sympathy  for you know getting high  and dancing around a fireplace as a part  of a ritual still carried on to this day  by the cree people the ojibwe people  like do you think that's what i'm into  do you think like you know if you've  seen my videos criticizing christianity  as a religion  do you think i just completely abandoned  my critique of  monotheism  when instead of christianity it's native  american monotheism it's korea ojibwe  whether wherever you are in the united  states you know do you think do you  think i celebrate that do you think i  support that  do you think i'd want to teach my own  daughter  to to you know participate in these  you know ceremonies in a tent  in a teepee dancing around a fireplace  and  getting high it's not worth describing  the details  do you think i even believe in say dream  interpretation within first nations  spirituality did i have any [ __ ]  sympathy at all  for people interpreting dreams  and hallucinations  this way and ascribe significance all  right  i'm not just a nihilist from nine to  five it's 24 7. i'm not just the  nihilist when i'm criticizing islam or  christianity right i'm also a nihilist  on when i'm criticizing buddhism  the religion traditional spirituality of  the kree of the egypt way when i'm  criticizing right  okay  okay  you're live in the 21st century all  right and i was living in  saskatchewan i don't believe in any of  this [ __ ] right i don't believe in any  of it okay  but what next  what now  you know what kind of person am i going  to be what kind of role am i going to  play what am i going to do to help and  in effect i volunteered to be a part of  the cree language revival movement cree  and ojibwe they're very close to it i  signed up at the university paid money  and poured years of my life into it it's  like okay i can do this i have this  skill set from working on this kind of  politics and these languages and i can  be a valuable positive part of this  movement you know  now  you know guys  i don't but i'm a nihilist  i don't valorize cree culture  you know i don't i don't trust i don't  valorize ukrainian culture  you know the ukrainians are a bunch of  meat-eating drunks i don't like anything  about ukrainian culture i really don't  and they're also anti-semitic they'd  probably just hate me for being jewish  you know there's a lot of problems with  ukrainian there's a lot of things i  don't support and they wouldn't support  about me  from their perspective i'm a vegan jew  who wants you know and maybe that's why  they didn't recruit me maybe they said  vegan jewish  i don't know i don't know uh other  people i think got an email back but you  know there could be other reasons why  they decided it wasn't worth it i was  too old or or i only said i can do 200  push-ups and not 300 push-ups whatever  it was you know  um you know my point is it's really  false  to see the world and to see your role in  taking action and changing the world as  being built on the basis of this kind of  belief it's not that you subscribe to an  ideal  you believe in something and therefore  you risk your life for it  and again risking your life  we normally think of just  you know rolling the dice as if taking a  chance on death  the main way in which we risk our life  it's not  facing bullets right  the main and more important way you have  to think about risking your life is  risking five years of hard work  whether that's five years of hard work  boiling potatoes or five years of hard  work studying the chinese language five  years of hard work studying the kree  language the ojibwe language like okay  i'm gonna undertake this humble hard  work for three years or five years or  whatever it is and  the risk you're taking with your life  right in this way it may have nothing to  do with the difference between between  life and death  well it's just something you want to  jump in with um this is a good time to  comment guys who would actually read  your your comments but i don't know if  you got the same one i've got to just  read melissa's expression obviously  there's a lot of different stuff  yeah obviously there are a lot of  different things to talk about there but  i don't have something prepared i was  just  sometimes when i'm not listening to you  i don't know when you're gonna stop so  you know i don't know if there will be  an opportunity to even say anything  um  [Music]  look i i agree with you having heard so  much in the last few weeks  about  the conflicts in ukraine  and what people have to say about it  either professional journalists i i've  just been embarrassed basically to watch  a lot of the professional journalism  uh discussing this subject uh but also  private posts uh posts that i've seen  from people and you know on my facebook  or you know just elsewhere online  uh just the level of military illiteracy  and you know i don't want everything to  go back to ancient greece and in our  conversations but  just the fact that i've read  but every everything was back in  scripture  just the fact that i've read the history  of the peloponnesian war i really do  think although warfare has changed  immensely since then uh just the concept  alone of reading about warfare i think a  lot of people  maybe they they read about it in a  history textbook in high school and then  they never read it you know you don't  have to read anything about history you  don't have to  you know it's not required um  so i  i just think a lot of people are living  in complete ignorance  um about  warfare and how this is we are always  basically living on the edge of of war  um at any moment in the modern age and  uh people people like to live in a dream  where the this isn't the reality  yeah and i would just say it's it is  also a a self-righteous dream i mean  it's that people don't  people don't fantasize but fantasize  about these things in a way that's  humiliating to them or challenging them  or means they have to do a lot of hard  work they think about it in a way that  puts them on this podium  when they're on instagram when they're  on twitter and i think frankly even when  they talk to their own family members  where they feel empowered  by the the delusions they  they choose to embrace  now i have a great quote here uh in the  in the audience so this is from ben  hodges i i don't know that i've seen  this as a white house sports  spokesperson let's just look up the name  uh okay so yeah he's in effect uh he's  in effect a spokesperson for the  american side here um  u.s military uh  person  so here's a quote quote  absolutely ukraine is going to win this  russia is not going to get into kiev  russia has made the decision to  transition into attrition warfare  [Laughter]  so um look guys i'm going to use an  example this just came up spontaneously  with melissa it really wasn't because  melissa asked me a question it was just  that i was looking at and hearing  all of this illiterate news reporting  and discussion  and so out of the blue without melissa  asking about it i sent melissa a series  of photographs of what  russian mortar equipment looks like so i  just want to say morter i'm just going  to give you guys the words it is a very  strange word in english you don't hear  it often  right in the news what you hear about is  shelling  and and melissa appointed she said oh  well thank you for sending me this and  explaining this i'm going to tell you in  a moment just what it was i explained to  her  oh wow i hear this stuff about shelling  in the news and i try to visualize what  are they actually talking about like  what are these shells you know you don't  mean shells from a pistol what do they  mean by shelling okay so i center  photographs of the particular hardware  that the russians use  mortars okay  the word mortar in english is the same  word as mortar and pestle we still have  this in in modern english okay it is it  is a word just for something that's  shaped like a bowl  and if you go back and look at the type  of mortar in the military sense used  during the napoleonic era pardon me  during the napoleonic era and even sort  of the the late medieval era they did  look more like a mortar in the sense of  a mortar and pestle so this is a kind of  slaying term  that has become formalized in the  english language it's now part of the  dictionary  denotation of the word mortar they are  very small  they're very cheap  they're very lightweight um i showed  melissa pictures of specific  heavy mortar models that can be rolled  around like golf clubs so you know like  in american culture people have golf  clubs and have a little caddy they have  two wheels they can roll it and  obviously you look at the size of these  things you could load at least 20 of  them onto a truck  depends on how well you pack them into a  truck you know you can set up 20 mortars  right  and if you're within 10 kilometers of  the target  they can then fire shells more mortar  rounds however you want to put it they  can fire incendiary shells for example  24 7.  and it costs  next to nothing  this doesn't have the kind of cost of a  guided missile you know the united  states of america uses these very very  expensive missiles that fire from a um  a submarine you know this is really  really expensive you know try to  calculate how much each missile strike  caused the united states firing missiles  long-range missiles from a helicopter is  also very expensive okay having one  truck  deploy 20 mortars and then have  20 guys maybe 40 guys sit there  and pop in the the it was gonna say  rockets they're not even really marcus  rockets their mortar rounds and have  them shell a city you can completely  destroy a city in 24 hours and there's  no limit to how many mortars you can set  up once you're in range i said 20 you  can set up a hundred  right and again each one if you look  this up they get even smaller than that  they get really tiny the actual size of  the explosives is small and the the uh  the tube that they fire out of is very  small right it's it's likely if you put  in the word artillery  you will instead get images of the  largest the most frightening russian  artillery  uh  vehicles shall we say you know and  it's kind of natural human curiosity  gravitates towards these these enormous  machines of war okay  that's not what it takes  to reduce an entire city  to rubble okay that's not what it takes  to win over  now  we're in a situation right now  where we're gonna talk about the russian  strategy in terms of what's overt and  then what's hypothetically covert on an  overt level  what  vladimir putin is saying to the  ukrainians is 100 consistent with my  analysis of this war since 2014.  uh now i'm going to raise the question  like maybe i'm wrong maybe what putin's  trying to do covertly is different so i  said  but on an overt level what putin is  saying to the ukrainian government is if  you want this to stop if you want the  russians to stop  dropping bombs  shelling using mortars using uh  artillery if you want the russians to  stop destroying ukrainian cities  then the government of ukraine has to  sign a document  recognizing the independence of donetsk  and luhansk and either recognizing the  the independence of crimea or  recognizing it as russian territory but  one way or another stating that ukraine  will never again make a territorial  claim that ukraine does not consider it  ukrainian territory donetsk luhansk  uh crimea so since 2014  that is what i thought  putin's agenda was and at the earliest  stage like around 2015 it seemed to me  then that he was maybe willing to say  let's split it 50 50.  let's pretend ukraine has won something  like you guys can save face you can you  can you can pretend you've won something  where russia would give back donetsk and  luhansk but russia would keep  crimea that it would be like okay we'll  pretend it's a 50 50 split that is not  remotely at 55 but okay we will  recognize you as ukrainian territory to  next new hampshire but russia would keep  you know uh crimea  which is really what the war is is all  about okay so now it's it seems like  today unambiguously the offer is no you  missed your chance like maybe if ukraine  had capitulated right back in 2014 2015  maybe they would have gotten a better  deal but now too many years  have gone by too many years too many  billions of dollars too many body bags  now russia is saying they're gonna take  all three to nets luhansk and crimea  and if you want kiev back if you want  the russians to just give up their claim  to the west of ukraine or the remaining  part of ukraine then  you have to capitulate and then that's  that's the new 50 50. that's the new way  to let ukraine say face say okay ukraine  gets to exist at all  and recognize this russian page that is  overtly what vladimir putin has been  saying at this point um  it is possible that  covertly  instead what he wants is to just conquer  and rule all of ukraine it's possible  like it's possible that that overt  uh offer of peace negotiations is just  100 a dead end distraction tactic and  that actually putin wouldn't wouldn't  give it to  um and if so it's a smart tactic you  know it's it frames it in a certain way  the western press  is reporting the evacuation  of the entire population of kiev as if  it's a victory for the ukrainian side as  if it's a victory for the american side  as if it's a victory for nato  think about the level  of cultural acceptance of cowardice  we've got going on here guys  so you're telling me  running away  to live in a refugee camp is victory  right you're telling me that's bravery  telling that's good that's the ukrainian  side winning no it's not  it is most likely  that putin has simply been waiting  for these evacuations to proceed  before increasing the military pressure  on kiev and all the other major cities  and when i say increasing the military  pressure i mean two things  one mortar mortar shelling whatever i  say devastation to the use of  uh explosive and incendiary shells or  mortars which can completely you don't  need anything else that can be a  sufficient tactic as soon as you have a  stable camp in range to use mortar and  artillery the war is over  okay  babe a little bit too hard to find can  you see machiavelli's discourses that's  pretty cool  if you think this is new  in terms of war literacy and war  illiteracy  machiavelli  in the discourses on livy he already  says the old era of war is over because  now we have artillery now we have  mortars it's  fundamentally the same technology now  as soon as the enemy is in range to use  artillery and mortar fire to destroy  your city  the war is done  right now the the only footnote we have  to add so machiavelli do this all right  the journalists in our time don't know  this the major political leaders in our  time i feel don't know this like  you know maybe there are some exceptions  but most of the democratically elected  leaders in the west they do not  understand this machiavelli  all right uh you can say machiavelli was  ahead of his time i just think he was a  man of his time the footnote you have to  add to this is  uh  airplanes aerial assault is that you can  then make a counter argument say well if  the enemy can come in and set up mortar  fire they can come in and set up  artillery but you can defend yourself by  sending out aircraft to destroy it  either before it fires or as soon as it  starts firing that's a counter-balancing  element we all know that's not the case  in ukraine right now ukraine does not  have the dominance of the skies they  don't have an air force that can that  can wipe out uh russian artillery  encampments  russian uh  uh  mortar placements but even so if you  know what happens with incendiary  weapons as soon as they're fired on a  city  city lights on fire and it burns then  it's game over  now if the city is fully populated  you could have a million people die i  mean people run away it's unlikely to be  millions uh just be honest probably a  hundred thousand people you know per se  you know it's normally just because  people get up and run i like  that we was talking about this the other  day when you're looking at the total  body count for even the atom bomb the  american use of nuclear weapons in uh  hiroshima and nagasaki well why is the  body count so low well people get up and  move you know it's not that many people  in the blast radius and people you know  so you know it's  even the most devastating weapons you'd  be surprised how low  the uh the bodyguard is but it is most  likely russia is  waiting i mean obviously they're keeping  up the pressure  uh approximately one million people have  already fled kiev so maybe another  million are going to flee this city  empties out and then you can just win  you can just use incendiary mortars and  it's game over okay again you don't have  to read the  you know you don't have to read the fine  print  in the military equipment catalog and  know the exact  you know  model of of the incendiary weapons of  the shells of the of the mortar devices  this is very broad  war literacy as opposed to war  illiteracy  that we're talking about okay and then  the other thing you can do once you know  a significant percentage of the um  of the civilian population has evacuated  is you can just occupy the city with  soldiers on foot you just have to march  in and take it and i mean i was laughing  out loud to melissa  day before yesterday or something  because i saw a ukrainian  ukrainian news broadcast this is  basically propaganda from the ukrainian  side that was describing how heroically  the ukrainian people are resisting the  russians but the actual news footage  they were showing was of the russian  army parading in and occupying a city  and i say parade  intentionally the russians who were  walking in they had no concern that they  were under fire they were not defending  themselves in any way  you know it didn't look like the  ukrainian civilians were happy about it  people were not cheering  but all of the ukrainian civilians there  they were accepting  the russian occupation of their of their  city or town that was what i was seeing  on cameras like well what i'm seeing is  the exact opposite i'm seeing the total  absence of armed resistance as the  russians occupy this this particular  place i'm not saying it's the whole of  ukraine is like that but i'm not seeing  a gorilla resistance guerrilla warfare  or whatever you want to say bitter  partisan of bitter end fighting that's  not what's going on here at all and  sorry if you just think about a parade  you got tanks and you got men on foot  rolling in to occupy a town if there is  just one sniper up in an apartment  building once you're into urban warfare  there's just one team of snipers  shooting down right  that what happens to your military  parade right like  if you think the military parade means  nothing you think it's just symbolic no  it demonstrates the total absence of  guerrilla resistance  but this  this is not vietnam  the reality on the ground of the  ukrainians who have capitulated the  ukrainians who are today living under  russian occupation some of whom have  been under occupation since 2014 right  the reality on the ground is not  it's not like the vietnam war it's not  at all and by the way i do know the  history of vietnam war  a very small percentage of the  vietnamese people supported communism  like that's the reality  many vietnamese they wanted an  independent democratic country they  didn't want to be ruled by communists it  wasn't the case they had massive uh  support at the ground level it was very  you know internally the divisions  between different vietnamese  political camps those are intensely felt  and  they were to some extent killing each  other they weren't just killing  americans  [Music]  i'll just say i really like this  discussion and i really like what you  could say about cowardice yeah and  just being  nihilistic about  even what you hear on the news  living with this every day not nine to  five 24 hours  five days a week  i live with  no belief in what i hear on the news i'm  not going to put my faith in somebody  saying no ukraine is winning uh  when if you just do  a little bit of analysis as you've as  you've you it's more analysis than a  little that you've fleshed out in this  video so far  um but if you really do think it all the  way through  um examining just a simple statement  like that like yes ukraine is winning  yes  right what does that mean right and  exactly what you're saying here um right  they don't even have  ukrainian army doesn't even  have snipers that are willing to  shoot at people  during this military  parade yeah as you said yeah so um you  know  and again by the way you have a human  heart think about it from the other side  think about if you were one of the  russian soldiers and you were facing  these conditions too i mean you know  again i  sympathy is an analytical tool you may  find it hard to sympathize with vladimir  putin specifically or hard to sympathize  with the specific soldiers that are on  the ground but take the time to do it  and even just visualize those things and  thinking through i think it helps you  get over  some of these propaganda notions i'm  mostly hearing left-wing propaganda with  this i'm not seeing a lot of right-wing  prop piano but you know really really  really  just thinking about well what if it were  me who had a shoulder-mounted rocket and  i'm gonna take out a group of attack  helicopters like gee this starts to seem  implausible if i'm actually like you  know sorry just thinking through what if  what if i were in mariupol trying to  resist the army occupying the city and  that like  step by step we're going here yeah yes  exactly and just the  the basis for this is  outrage and seeing  uh people dying in war  um when  people are dying in war and we've just  been ignoring it uh  so  that it's that by itself is enough to  just totally  uh totally incapacitate people's ability  to reason through this they just they  they see this horrifying image they  think this is terrible the russians are  you know clearly the evil side uh i have  to stand up and just shout to anyone who  will listen that this is this is  horrible um number one yes it is  complete illiteracy in warfare two  completely just disregarding what  happened in 2014 yes that the ukraine  was  already invaded in 2014 and there was  there was shelling in 2014. i just saw  it the other day um and nobody i don't  remember that  at all uh you know this kind of outcry  this outrage  at that showing at that time right uh  but just just the  you know immobilizing of people's brain  power in this uh you know what you said  about about  uh yeah being the center  of russia at one time yes  you know  that just just be clear that is the  origin  of the russian nation so it's not just  at one time kiev was the capital it's  kind of at the most important time it's  their foundational myth it's it's you  know the origin of the of the  nationality of russia not just the  country of the empire is kiev and ruse  it's it's the city of kiev that's where  it all that's where the story begins  that's where chapter one of your history  textbook begins for history of russia  whether at the primary school level high  school level or university going in yes  so i i admit my ignorance on this level  i mean that you you told me about this  uh oliver  uh oliver shields a fan of your channel  and also has his own youtube channel uh  so he sent me you know this document  about the republic of al gore i'm sorry  yes pronouncing it but just this level  of history learning about you know  how many people who are standing up and  and denouncing russia for this great  have any grasp on it and like you said i  know i know a lot of people might  understand it but they wouldn't send  their own daughter or son into war you  know of course you know that's a  different level but just like being able  to admit like okay  maybe there is some like  repeat this very briefly  like the discussion wouldn't be worth  having if one side were totally good and  one side were totally evil  like so i've discussed this i also have  a book chapter chapter four my my book  is on uh patreon right now if you pay  one dollar on patreon you can read the  first four chapters of the future of an  illusion and i don't even know you can  read a lot of my other book too no more  manifestos so there's there's a lot of  work but this is one of the things i've  i've recently put emphasis on is  you know  um  recognizing in a nuanced way  what is good  within the evil side's argument or what  have you that's really important that's  really an aspect of of maturity  in politics  adolf hitler  was opposed to cigarette smoking  was opposed to women drinking alcohol  during pregnancy no he was wrong  about almost everything else i mean you  know you don't feel i really do think he  was a [ __ ] i think he was an incredibly  stupid person really i mean a lot of  people have this  a lot of people talk about this kind of  evil genius trope i don't think he was  an evil genius at all i think he was an  idiot but you know again understanding  you know  the complexity and contradiction and  really dealing with and then  understanding what is still the people  to this day what is appealing to people  about nazism and neo-nazism why it still  matters today and it matters right now  in the ukraine conflict in case you  hadn't heard why this comes up  again again this way and then and then  dealing with with that you know so this  this is this is important all these  different fields but look um in terms of  a one-sided so a great question from  spen spen says can i get the book some  other way suspend uh that particular  book i was gonna publish it today but  maybe tomorrow the next day uh veganism  the future of an illusion that will be  for sale on  uh  amazon amazon.com really within just a  couple of days the other book is taking  longer the other book is called no more  manifestos so i don't know a couple of  weeks or something but yeah you can get  them on amazon i'm just being honest i  don't know how much it'll cost i i'm  gonna put it as cheap as i can kind of  thing but  there's some details you don't know  until you know like you don't know until  the end i can't promise you any  particular price of this minute because  i i don't know the system works  to that level  dealing with  um yeah but i'm dealing with uh  amazon self-publishing for both so yes  the short answer is yes and frankly even  if you are supporting me on patreon i  i hope people will  go and read the book that way uh anyway  sorry pleasant distraction thanks for  the thanks for the question  um  myanmar  okay  some  people sincerely support vladimir putin  east and west like there are some  americans who are pro-russia and  pro-putin you know and and  we're talking about people sincerely now  if you  step down a level into the insincere and  cynical support for russia some people  are making a lot of money out of the oil  industry you know some people have  corporate concerns and investments some  of them have reasons to support russia  or to tolerate vladimir putin  because they're making millions of  dollars whatever the situation is like  there were there were business interests  and these kinds of things there are  people who are into conciliation and  cooperation for insincere reasons but  you know there are people in sincere  support okay  that's russia that's putin we talk about  myanmar talk about the [ __ ] military  dictatorship in myanmar  nobody supports them nobody sympathizes  with them like that's closer to like  pure evil in terms of  politics then even like during during  his first election during like we joined  with the first couple months of the  regime of adolf hitler there were all  kinds of people including the prime  minister of canada who were super  optimistic about hitler they were like  oh hey this is going to work out you  know with you  yeah well some of them later regretted  uh [ __ ] uh the psychologist carl  young  hilarious go back and read carl young's  support for adolf hitler it's [ __ ] oh  yeah oh yeah and he did later regret it  and some people praise his later writing  where he's regretting it i don't forgive  you carl young i think that i think  there's a really deep judgment who that  dude was no all kinds of people were  were optimistic about this and again  like sympathy is an analytical tool i'm  not asking you to have sympathy for the  devil you can just sit around and weep  in your  shreddies weeping your breakfast cereal  you know my point is you can sympathize  in order to understand the phenomena  right  so in this sense  you know myanmar after so many decades  of suffering and sorrow they finally  return to democracy deeply flawed  democracy semi-democracy blah blah blah  they finally reinstalled uh aung san  tsuchi  in a kind of symbolic leadership role  right she wasn't really you know in  terms of political power the leader but  okay she was not in prison anymore to  this fragile frail old woman who's not  vegan  she's not she'd live a longer healthier  life if you're a vegan  convert honks on sushi to veganism guys  you know okay so there was this progress  there was this hope for myanmar  nobody supports this military  not even communist china you know  they're not happy about it they're like  willing to tolerate it because business  is business they have their own policy  and approach to these things do you  think nepal is happy about it you think  india is happy i think malaysia is happy  but  not even cambodia  not even hun sen the leader of cambodia  nobody's happy about this what the [ __ ]  you gonna do about it homeboy  now look i have had to ask myself at  many many different points in my life  thought i was going to learn the burmese  language  i've had to ask myself at many different  points in my life if i was going to  learn one of the ethnic minority  languages within burma so languages like  shan  languages like moan  all right like i can't count i would  have to sit here and think like there  were many different kind of junctures in  my life where i sat down and was  seriously looking at committing myself  to learning one of these languages again  whether burmese or one of the minority  languages in important i'd have to go  down a list for you probably 10  different  points in my life but one that was uh  very memorable and you know emotionally  moving for me um  just a couple of days before my daughter  was born some divorced this is when i  was together with my my ex-wife and i  forget this is four days before what but  it was in the period we were just  getting ready for the birth and you  never know exactly what it's gonna be so  it was four days or seven days or two  days but you know in the days leading up  to birth and we got got everything  prepared and i'm doing all you know i'm  doing all the cooking and cleaning you  know you know my my ex-wife is putting  her feet up and you know  uh making a lot of vegan macaroni and  cheese this kind of stuff  you know uh but we're sitting around and  you know i i said to her then it was  just in the lead up you know in some  ways you have a lot of time you're  really just waiting to give birth kind  of thing and i there were there were  violent political events in burma at  that time and i said to her look will  you let me show you because she had her  own scholarly background in languages  and politics of of asia and i had my  because look you know we could do this  like you and me could make the decision  today and we can really go into burma we  can specialize in burmese politics you  know including the ethnic minority and i  was trying to show her how the writing  system works just saying so i can read  and write burmese because i learned pali  it's like learning latin and then you  study italian except it's way harder  because it's southeast asia but like you  know there's this ancient language i'd  already learned and i learned to read  and write it in the burmese tradition  then you know and i was trying to show  her and the ways in which burmese was  similar to languages she had studied and  of course she already knew it's  connected to history and politics  and um  i remember my ex-wife being so kind of  uh contemptuous and [ __ ]  in response to this  that you know i got i got very upset i  said to her like like what you know  what's the matter with you like i'm  trying to talk to you seriously about  you know what we're gonna do with the  next 10 years of our lives like what  we're doing politically and what we're  doing intellectually because she had  given up on like five different things  she'd been doing with her career i had  been forced to give up on five different  things i was doing with my life i didn't  want to she made decisions that forced  me to completely throw everything i was  doing in the garbage you know i'm  looking for hope and belief in the  future and how i can make a positive  difference in the world and i'm saying  there seriously look we can just and it  has everything to do with doing it  together if you guys haven't studied a  language sitting alone with a book is  very different from me just having one  other person who's doing the the  speaking exercise with you right like  you know we could do this together and  you know she could take her background  and i could take my background we could  go into this and make a difference  uh just saying this is not a boast but  obviously that's true some of you know  who my my ex-wife was or who she is  put it this way not only is it true that  i could have made a difference in  burmese politics and my ex-wife could  have made a difference in women's  politics  not only is it true that we could have  made more of a difference together and  learning to read and write blameless  [ __ ] if you think about  who my ex-wife was  and what her  phd prepared her to be able to do like  what paths she could have taken right  after finishing her phd  right  actually  actually that's probably the biggest  difference she could have made that's  probably the best path she could have  gone on for to get into burmese whether  mainstream burmese or an ethnic minority  tradition of burmese like shan  actually  you know like like if you compare it to  what difference could she have made in  beijing china  good luck  what we have to ask those little time  what difference it's going to make in  taiwan even you know that's that's  actually a place where at that time and  then in the 10 years that followed well  coming up on 10 years  since i split up with my my ex-wife not  yet but anyway  you know so again it's not just a hollow  bows but you think about opportunity  cost okay my point is again  we're not just talking about risking  your life  it's not just saying to you hey strap a  strap on a bandolier hey  you can be you know uh  arnold schwarzenegger or something you  know  even if you try even if that's what you  sign up for most of the guys who sign up  to join the army thinking they're going  to be arnold schwarzenegger they're  peeling potatoes they're carrying sacks  of ammunition they're digging trenches  they're doing all kinds of mundane tasks  that make the military operation  possible or or worse you know whatever  you know really you can find your whole  military care can be doing paperwork you  know and that's you feel that's not what  you signed up for well you know guess  what you signed up to follow orders not  give orders and you know you may have  thought you signed up to be a hero you  don't get to be a hero and you may even  worse you sign up to be a hero you end  up committing crimes against humanity  and let me just let me just digress to  say this there are a lot of people in  the media now making a big deal of the  fact that some of the ukrainians are  neo-nazis  all  right if you make the decision to sign  up to join the us army  right now because you support joe  biden's policy let's just say you're  you're a moderate centrist you support  joe biden's policy if you sign up and  join the us army do you think you won't  work with neo-nazis do you think you  won't have a guy in your unit who can  [ __ ] shoot a machine gun like nobody  else yeah that guy's our best gunner  and he's a [ __ ] neo-nazi and you get  along with them and you break wherever  you eat lunch with that [ __ ] neo-nazi  you know it's hard that's what war  entails war entails that someone who  would be your worst enemy in peace time  becomes your best friend because he  knows how to shoot a [ __ ] machine gun  he's actually good at his job and that's  the guy you rely on to pull the [ __ ]  trigger  and yeah you know yeah you know brad  he's kind of a [ __ ] neo-nazi but you  know and the reverse is true too there's  some [ __ ] neo-nazi like brad he signs  up whatever because he went maybe he  wanted to fight against the taliban  whatever he wanted to fight against and  his best friend becomes a translator  who's ethnically you know arab he's  racist against arabs but now his best  friend is an arab translator you know he  signs up and he has a close friendship  with a black guy who's also really good  at firing a machine gun that's what war  does  that's what war does to people for  better and for for worse right now if  you're in a [ __ ] us military base in  virginia you will have friends and  colleagues who are neo-nazis in the  united states of america do you want do  you want to venture i guess  what percentage of men in service the  american army right now are neo-nazis  nobody wants to know you think the  research is hard to do it's not hard to  do you think the cia you think the cia  doesn't have a [ __ ] button they can  press that's based on  filtering and reviewing every single  email sent and received by every single  man on active military duty you think  they can't press a [ __ ] button and  tell you right now  what percentage of people in the us army  are neo-nazis  it's one button you think you're like  you know look  all armies do this okay right now let's  say you're the you're the government of  israel  you need to know  how many of your own soldiers are  religious fanatics  of various kinds  of course every email every text message  from every phone  for anyone who's in the israeli military  of course  they're filtering it for keywords of  course they are  of course they want to know how many  guys in active duty in the israeli army  how many are left-wing left-wing wing  nuts let's put that with you know a  little bit crazy on the left-wing how  many are right-wing  wing nuts how many and like even just  like within judaism how many of them are  moderately religious and some of them  are how many are really religious to the  point where this could be a problem this  could be a problem in a battlefield  situation in terms of a trust in terms  of  intelligence in terms of reliability you  think you think nobody  in the [ __ ]  cia knows how many of these guys are  neo-nazis they work with neo-nazis  because that is war  there's a guy here in canada if you  google you'll find this guy but i don't  even want to use his [ __ ] name  there's a guy here in canada who  finished a university degree  uh  and he i forget he was like 25 or 30 but  he was older than the average army  recruit but he'd finish his university  degree and he was the stereotypical  antifa left winger you know he  identified as both an anarchist and a  communist you know they try to play this  game like oh you can take anarchism and  communism and call it anarcho-communism  it's like you can take freedom and  tyranny  you [ __ ] get a piece of [ __ ] but he  was playing the same game the antifa  people were like oh it's it's not  communism terrible communism you know  uh he was one of these pieces of [ __ ]  from my perspective he was university  educated and he signed up to fight in  afghanistan in case you didn't know i  signed up to fight against isis not that  many years ago didn't work out for some  reason canadian army um and and that's  on my record too if i if we talk if i  now apply for a visa to go back to china  if i apply for a visa to go back to  thailand you think their government  can't press a button and just see a  record of  oh he signed up to join the army and of  course they can of course they can  any well-organized military government  in the world and when like whatever you  apply for a business visa you apply for  a whatever a student visa of course they  can and they can press a button and see  oh this person how what are their  religious views of course  what do you what do you think what do  you think [ __ ] what do you think  email exists for  and if if they couldn't you'd say they  were incompetent  if they couldn't you'd complain you'd  say why didn't the government cash this  guy when the next terrorist attack  happens of course they do they do that  for giving visas people who apply for  visas of course they do it for people  signing up for the military or specific  uh military side  um  anyway there was this piece of [ __ ]  left-wing extremist in the canadian army  and he went and got himself killed i  forget if he died in afghanistan or if  he died in  iraq i'm sorry i just forgot which one  but you know i relate to this story on  many different levels but there was this  attempt in the canadian mainstream media  and i i 100 assume it was like handed to  them by the federal government the  government of canada to make this guy  into a hero like oh here's this really  good guy here's this really morally good  person who signed up to fight and die  and  he fought and he died you know  um  [Music]  you know okay so i can sit here and say  oh this guy is a communist this guy is  uh  whatever he's this kind of college boy  phony anarcho-con okay all right  but if i were deployed with him  if i were digging a trench with him and  living in a tent with him and i'm  fighting in the war with him right  that's what war does it brings  communists and fascists together  it brings all kinds of people together  who otherwise would  hate each other right  to to fight  or die  you know that's that's the kind of  clarity that violence brings  to  to human life  okay great great question from javier  nice to hear from you javier and i i got  your email and replied to you a couple  hours ago  javier asks quote  how do you approach the idea of primary  sources in a topic that is in unfolding  in real time like this great great  question  um with all this misleading information  how do you cope with reading primary  source documents  you know i mean in a sense informally  i'm saying this to melissa all the time  like it's just it's not something i  normally do  broadcast about or write articles about  it's like what i hate about the kind of  what i hate about the mainstream media  and twitter and what i hate about the  way in which mainstream media relies on  twitter you have journalists and their  form of research  is reading things on twitter and quoting  people on on twitter is this really  strange way in which they disregard the  motivations for people saying these  things  so you know to give you an example i was  you know i was just shouting just to be  just for the sake of being more  entertaining in the conversation melissa  but like i see  these youtubers reporting on news  stories saying oh  you know the ukrainian side it has these  strategically important missiles  it's like  if  they had strategically important  missiles they would not be in the  newspaper  they would not be encouraging you to  talk about this  on twitter and on youtube like the  strategically important missiles in this  conflict are the missiles nobody knows  about and that they would literally kill  you  for talking about or revealing the  location of as opposed to like these  propaganda photos that are being  actively given to you and and shared  right  now i'm just pointing out that's not  even talking about news being fake or  misleading  it's just about recognizing what the  motivations of people are  in  in creating and sharing and propounding  news this way you know like  so it's the simplest thing to say but  you know people are saying this for a  reason and when people are silent  they're silent for a reason and things  are secret for a reason  um  you know and some of the things that  nobody is talking about are more  significant than what is being shared  and propounded openly so i've raised the  issue again and again of  what about  syria what about what the israeli army  and israeli intelligence are doing in  syria now  because the russian position there has  been vitiated um what i want to say the  russian position there is  the the excuses for  uh tolerating the russian  russian cooperation with uh the assad  regime in syria those have ended so now  now that  uh attacking the russians in syria is  fair game what happens what are the  israelis going to do what have they  already done secretly like what is  because a lot of what  israeli intelligence in the israeli  military does i remember that day one  when the syrian civil war popped off is  israeli intelligence israel military and  the israeli air force they went in and  did a whole lot of things rather which  you know i'm not saying it was a  not saying nobody mentioned it in the  news but there's very little recognition  or discussion of that and how how  important it was strategically so you  have israeli making was there and  another one i've drawn attention to  repeatedly is what's happening on  saccharin island  what's happening on the current islands  what's happening on the disputed border  between japan and russia and i've been  sending melissa links about this and you  know melissa sent me a screenshot of a  youtube comment uh where someone in  ukraine someone who was ukrainian said  hey japan you guys should now invade  russia and and take back you know  reconquer sackland island reconquer uh  the kuril islands you know it's now is  your chance because we have this war  with russia you know  again these things aren't secret  nobody's talking about it i listen to  the japanese news and a certain  percentage the japanese news consists of  direct propaganda statements the  japanese government and they have  stepped up the propaganda on this japan  is openly saying well guess what we're  not happy about our border with russia  guess what we don't accept this we don't  except a bunch of tough talk  you know or can you back it up you're  gonna do something  well okay so again some of my analysis  it has already proven to be true i mean  someone else from 2014 proved to be true  also but some analysis just a few weeks  ago it has it has played out in this way  there are these other fronts um  another one is what what turkey is going  to do i think there's no point  speculating about that but you know  there's certainly best cases and worst  case scenarios there uh  you know so the answer to this question  is you just have to look at  all reasoning as motivated reasoning and  all  communication  as having a very definite intention like  you know you look at these statements  and for every one of the statements  whether it's from a government or from a  journalist you can add  and that's what they want you to think  you know that's what they want you to  know and you know there there there is  an agenda here so actually for me it's  not that hard to cope with but you think  about the background i come out of  um what does anyone say about the  history of slavery in thailand  well that's what they want you to think  you know  that's what they want you to know and  then there's all these things that are  that are not being said what does anyone  say  about the history of buddhism  and how the buddhist religion was  connected to slavery in thailand  oh  what happens if you're the one guy  even at cambridge england even in oxford  england you know what if you're the one  guy willing to talk about  slavery  and buddhism  in the history of thailand  and then you know there's a lot of  silence  and then these intentional statements  but you know in my experience you know  even dealing with the history of french  colonialism  in cambodia in laos  it's amazing the extent to which you're  always dealing with this kind of  motivated reasoning so you know i just  say for me i'm just i'm just being  honest this is just subjective for me  it's not different for me it's not a  change to shift over to deal with  primary sources right now as as history  unfolds and how  deceptive they are how they engage in  deception  and i think if anything what's hard to  deal with is the possibility that people  are just telling the truth uh just real  real briefly so i'm wondering what most  people say most of us are saying but you  know  what if when vladimir putin says this  he's actually telling the truth that you  know that's possible what if when joe  biden says this go back watch my video  on joe biden's secret plan  uh for the indo-pacific there's the  there's this possibility that this  really is joe biden's plan this really  is american foreign policy in the next  10 20 years we don't know so that's  actually somebody starting to deal with  is what if it's what if it's not  deception  yeah i was just going to comment about  your article that you posted  many years ago about saccharine island  and about the indigenous question of the  indigenous people of sacramento island  uh so i was just reading it because you  shared it to your patreon and  i wanted to point out just this this  part you were analyzing some a  government document from russia uh from  the soviet union yeah  so  they were categorizing or they were um  characterizing sacklin as being part of  russia immemorial  i remember i remember that phrasing  since time immemorial  section was about how  the indigenous people were now having to  live in different houses they were  having to live in a totally different  society and with different culture  a different culture than they ever had  before so this is this direct opposition  that is is that was a primary source i  mean that's the government source um you  know you have to be uh  conscious of that when you're when  you're listening to  president biden today when you're  listening to uh even uh zelinski today  right look you know but i mean i'm i'm  used to it i mean i guess it's just i  read all primary sources this way for  any historical period any context you  know one of the ones that's a real laugh  is uh when did yunnan become part of  china now if you want to talk about  tibet this is even more income when when  did tibet become part of china you know  but when did yunnan  become part of china when did  dil  become part of china when did sipsong  panna  sichuan bana in chinese pronunciation  when did simpson panna become  a part of  what all chinese will tell you and  including chinese who admit this is a  lie five minutes after you show you're  not an idiot is  since the han dynasty  [Laughter]  let's  let's so the the han dynasty starts in  206  bc and it says the handles  [Laughter]  so you know this is this is kind of  normal uh you know i'm sorry it's false  in case you weren't guessing what i'm  saying this is a lie  people lie this way you know constantly  um and they lie when they have nothing  to gain  so you know i mean when i was younger  i regarded these lies as intentional  i as i've gotten older i've really had  to appreciate how stupid  most people are most of the time so in  some ways i've become more morally  permissive but more intellectually  demanding where i you know i blame  stupidity more and i blame evil and  intentional  dishonesty less  uh  most countries exist with this type of  very deep  um contradiction you know within  themselves  china has many china has numerous you  know i saw lately i've seen many many  interviews from russia  but one of the recurring late motifs  when people in russia today this is like  within the last two weeks right now in  russia when they want to say that they  don't really support the conquest of  your criminal they're saying they're  kind of polite you know they're not  being trenchant they'll often say oh you  know  russia is so big already  you know  we have  why would we need to conquer ukraine  such an enormous country we just do have  so much land with so much territory and  a couple people said you know these are  just  these are just man on the street  interviews random normal russians and  these are the people who who want to  politely and vaguely oppose the war not  trenchantly oppose the war but some of  them said you know russia's problem is  that we're under populated  not that we are overpopulated don't have  enough land  but you know russia is so big russia has  so much lantern  for how long has sackland island been a  part  for how long has siberia been a part of  russia what really is the moral  relationship between the russian  nationality which is deeply involved  with ukraine with kiev and ruse and so  on and  kazakhstan and central asia like okay  like if this is your justification which  is in some ways understandable it's  iridentism if you don't know that german  politics it's very good to know uh  so okay so if you have an if you have an  irredentist  justification for conquering ukraine  that this is part of the ancient  homeland of russia  uh well you know um  looking a little bit further east you  have you have a whole lot of territory  that's somebody else's that somebody  else is indigenous to  you know  and uh sorry  it's this massive issue staring you in  the face including i mean as i've  mentioned the border with japan is is a  huge in office in ceremony  yeah i just want to say maybe this is uh  two  i don't know  on the nose or if this is too um  ironical to talk about it in this way um  to hear americans  critiquing uh  the invasion of ukraine  as a genocide  yes  now i know  a lot of people in america they don't  even have ancestors who were involved  with the genocide of the native  population in the united states  however uh  just  the kind of uh panic and outrage that  i've been hearing from the american  media  um it's  just  hypocritical in this way because the  american empire is  based on uh genocide and it is  it came up the last time you were  talking about this the annexation of  hawaii well today right why why is  hawaii part of the united states and  guam you know  the marshall islands um and  all this uh  it's it's um kind of hypocritical to to  uh you know criticize  russia in this way um  although i right  we still hate vladimir putin  but we can recognize the hypocrisy in  one side's arguments  yes and the fact that they have  eliminated  the native popular the fact that uh yes  the colonists  eliminate the population to such an  extent that they couldn't fight back um  you know and there was just you know  uh or you know they failed they failed  to uh uh  fight that so so i want to jump in here  uh the other  propaganda-based parallelism we see in  the press today i hear it again and  again and again  is the comparison between russia's  invasion of  and china's hypothetical invasion of  taiwan  where is the ancient origin of chinese  civilization if you open a textbook even  if you choose intentionally to open the  chinese history textbook used  by the chinese government itself used by  school children high school students  university students in china like the  official history approved by the  government of china  do you think in chapter one what's this  chapter one the ancient origins of the  chinese people do you think taiwan is  even on the map like at what point does  taiwan enter that history at what point  does it become an important place  but like you know  the chinese people do not have the  delusion  that taiwan is part of their ancient  homeland you know  taiwan's indigenous people  are not chinese taiwan's indigenous  languages  are not chinese when europeans  first arrived in taiwan  the  traders and christian missionaries who  got off the boat  did not encounter  chinese people  they encountered the aboriginal people  the indigenous people what do you want  to say the native people  who were not chinese and indeed the  expansion of chinese hegemony over  taiwan it was partly a response to  european colonialism the threat that  like well if china doesn't expand its  sphere to control this type of formerly  unimportant island if they don't take  over a greater role in dominating this  island maybe europeans are going to use  it as a trading outpost or what have you  yeah so the other thing i'm i'm skipping  here is the importance of piracy  uh europeans they're they're an  interesting piece of the puzzle but  actually the other big problem the  chinese from from beijing's perspective  or from nanjing's perspective but from  from the mainland transit the other  problem was could controlling piracy so  if you allowed this uh  island to remain this kind of lawless  frontier  um  controlling the indigenous people wasn't  a problem these became harbors used by  pirates and some of the pirates were  very powerful  um they you know they were not easy to  to oppose i don't see okay so this is  this is a digression but it's a very  significant one okay  every russian child  even if you're a russian growing up in  the united states of america like you're  not part of the hill but you're  ethnically russian and you get  interested in the history of russia when  you open that textbook  page one is chapter one it's gonna deal  with kevin rose the story begins  with this  seminal period  where the center of russia and the  origin of the russian people was in kiev  is in the area that's now ukraine and  moscow  doesn't exist and it isn't mentioned for  many centuries i'm sorry i don't have it  memorized how many centuries it is but  you know of course when moscow first is  mentioned it isn't an important place  yet it isn't the center of a great  empire but like moscow was a distant  remote uncivilized place and the  beginnings of russian history are there  in in kiev do i sympathize with vladimir  putin no do i support putin in this no i  support democracy you know i also don't  build my own politics on claims about  ancient homelands and ethnic identity  and you know this kind of thing that's  that's not my approach  to politics  you know  i've said this many times to friends of  mine and they're often shocked like  face-to-face conversations i remember  being in cambodia  and saying to this guy  i really hate him now but he's a friend  of mine this frenemy of mine  kind of colleague in front of me but  later i learned to hate the guy i  remember saying to him  you know  the indigenous people of germany are  german  like the way you're using the concept of  indigenous  it's false like indigenous doesn't mean  tribal indigenous doesn't mean poor  indigenous doesn't mean backward or  something like it doesn't have any like  you're using the word indigenous  in a way that's really false and like i  hate to tell you this but like so we're  dealing mostly with  cambodia laos and thailand and stuff but  like you can't talk about cambodia  as if the cambodian people are not  indigenous like this doesn't make sense  you know so really dealing with this  it's something we have to deal with in  politics all the time and by the way  look cambodia has a terrible system of  government right now  um there's an argument that cambodia  thailand laos and myanmar could all  become one country you know what i mean  like the fact that you recognize the  cambodian people or indigenous talent  that doesn't mean the best thing for  them is to have sovereignty in a  separate state there's an argument that  all of those countries could modernize  and improve by integrating and creating  a larger newer uh country just just to  give an example like the fact that you  recognize the importance of this kind of  ancient history doesn't mean that you  let it dictate uh all political outcomes  forever certainly until a few weeks ago  nobody thought it was the destiny of  russia to reconquer kiev and reunify  you know modern russia with the  territory of ancient cave and roots  that idea existed i mean certainly i  think everyone has just read an intro to  russian history textbook i think that  idea has been around but vladimir putin  successfully moved it up  from from a footnote to history to a  major priorities made it into the grand  arc of russian history being the  reunification of the russian people and  yes the reunification of moscow and kiev  you know so just point out there were  very real propaganda reasons to create  this parallel between russia's invasion  of ukraine and china's theoretical  hypothetical invasion of taiwan  but that parallelism is in many ways  profoundly misleading  i don't want to get too far off topic  but i just i want to say i appreciate  that you said that you don't live with  this belief that wherever  a group of people are indigenous to you  know live with the iridesce belief  that uh you know  you've had the experience of moving to  places you know around the world and  having to really consider am i going to  live here the rest of my life is this  going to become my culture we're living  right at all times with  it's a choice where we're living and and  what country we're trying to uh  identify with the politics and identify  with the culture the history the  language and for you in particular like  i i really admire that about you and  of course you know uh  of course i admire you for many reasons  a lot of things showing smoking yes  so i know i i  i recognize that i have some bias in  this but i really do admire that you  made the effort to lead to learn create  an ojibwe that if you're going to live  in canada that you're going to try to  win  the native language of the indigenous  population and this in a sense um i  believe is is um maybe i shouldn't say i  believe because i'm trying to be  anonymous here uh i'm just kidding um  but this this in effect like you are um  living  separate from  this idea of indigenous right so yes um  you know  i'm not going to move to norway and  think just because this is my blood that  i'm going to fit in here this is you  know really i can't help that you're not  you're not entitled to have a voice in  norwegian politics because of your blood  just making it more more real more  specific however if you spent five years  studying the norwegian language like  five years isn't that a long time you  could put in the work  and then all of a sudden you really are  entitled you really are part of it you  know yeah yes right so when you think  about this baby you could do this also  in  myanmar as you talked about this this  possibility of  studying the burmese language and really  making a difference in this  critical  um you know conflict uh you know just  just living with that too um you know  most people they can't they have they  have no control over over where they're  born of course  but at a certain point you have to live  with  your yes  where where you are choosing to live and  what kind of um  cultural assumptions you have yeah  yep so no you're right she's drawing out  something explicitly that within this  broadcast has been implicit that i think  that this type of responsibility is a  choice  that you can take it on  you know  um you can be ethnically black  and choose to become you know uh  politically and intellectually japanese  now the japanese people are racist the  japanese are xenophobic there's a sense  in which they'll never accept you but  you can imagine let's say it's a black  american  who's very passionate about  martial arts  okay let's let's just leave it at that  just have a simple example it's a black  guy who becomes totally fluent in  japanese  and he becomes some kind of karate  champion or martial art champion in  japan let's say he appears on tv a  couple times does some interviews then  he opens up his own martial arts school  there's a sense in which people will  always be racist against him you know  even if he speaks japanese perfectly and  you know can read them right after so  many decades and there you know there  will be some you know but still after  some number of years and some level of  commitment and some mastery that they  respect you for again you can be a  martial artist you could be a medical  doctor i mean you can do anything just  something that people respect you know  at some point he's uh  you know he's earned his right to have a  voice so my point is this is something  you take on it's not it's not  it doesn't exist passively because of  your blood or from where you happen to  be born but it's work no matter where  you are it's working right yeah just  just a parallel example one of the  videos that you sent me about sacklin  island and  there was an interview of a an  ethnically japanese man who was raised  learning russians in russian and he's  identifying as russia  he says i would feel like a foreigner in  japan  this is just the reality uh  you know um so  in the sense like i i  if we have democracy  in ukraine  in russia if we have democracy uh in  hawaii  shouldn't we all have the opportunity to  to say  well  this if we want independence we all have  to vote for it if we want to have  you know started  you know making such a broad  proclamation here but it's just you know  this  this is the real issue here is that uh  people in ukraine and people in russia  don't have this  this choice um  yep  yep well and you know i mean i think  that really is the great unanswered  question for the 21st century and  probably it will still be the great  unanswered question for the 22nd century  i just doubt we're going to wrap it up  within next 80 years  what about direct democracy  and you know france is not that big a  country  there are some provinces in france that  might want independence  spain is not that big a country already  there are a couple different provinces  in spain that might  want independence this is a very simple  you know challenge for direct democracy  can you decide that through a plebiscite  can you decide that through a referendum  well  take a few more steps and start really  dealing with the implications for  direct democracy in the 21st century in  the 22nd century that is the great  unanswered question and i think at this  time i think a lot of people have a  sense of it's danger  i think a lot of people don't even want  to ask it  um i have not seen a single news  broadcast  entertain the question  of what americans would say if you  directly had a referendum about whether  or not america should help ukraine  whether or not americans you could have  a question  should americans be allowed to volunteer  to join a military corps that will go  over and fight in ukraine against the  russians like if that were the question  we're not committing everyone to fight  but we're going to have a volunteer wing  of the army where men who already in the  army can volunteer and also members of  the public can volunteer to join who  will go and fight without being uh  drafted without being forced to fight to  go and fight the ukraine war  what percentage of americans would vote  yes for that today  you know now it's different in 2014 and  2015  today in 2022 and march 12th that's  tomorrow you know if tomorrow  people vote on that  whoo  i don't you i'm just saying i've only  lived in the united states for very  short periods of time you know i don't  have a lot of like you know  what percentage of texans  would vote like  i think a very large percentage what  percentage of new yorkers you know  americans love democracy americans love  to fight for democracy a fight like this  and they've all been seeing the same  news broadcasts we've been seeing i  don't know but it is very easy for me to  imagine more than 55 percent of  americans would say yes  let's go fight the russians or let's  allow people who want to fight the  russians to fight i think there were a  lot of tough americans who were willing  to take that that chance you know  uh hey here's a good question  what if japan  had that kind of  you know  that kind of referendum i just want to  say about the japanese people you guys  know i have studied japanese politics  formally in university and also has my  own interest  um  there is this reputation the japanese  have that they're just a bunch of  [ __ ]  you know they're just that they they  don't like to fight you know neither in  terms of face-to-face conflict nor war  or whatever else well there's another  side to japanese culture and it's really  the side of their culture they keep out  of the movies and they keep off of tv  like it's there  they just don't celebrate it the way  americans do like how many guys in  america really are the arnold  schwarzenegger type you know like how  many people really are bellicose and  warlike how many people in america are  men of action shall we say use a vague  term how many people really are this  this this type  well that tiny minority in america is  celebrated i would the difference with  japan it isn't the absence of that  character type um it's the fact that  they don't celebrate it in the movies  on tv  uh  in the mainstream culture that way and i  think people who really live in japan  really study japan they know about that  they know about that kind of tough  warlike side the japanese culture that's  still there  you know so what if you start having  more direct democracy where that voice  gets to be heard  and where those people get to make  decisions because currently i mean any  of these parliamentary democracies  there's no  there's nothing democratic about the  decision to start a war and there's  nothing democratic about the decision to  end a war  um  to say we have indirect democracy is  really an insult to direct democracy you  know what we have is on the democracy  so you know i think that's the great  that's the great question and look guys  so just to come back to the other  example i used before  nobody supports the military  dictatorship in myanmar  but  right if we had if we had direct  democracy  i'm just i'm just being real with you  i'm i  would i don't know what percentage of  americans or what percent of japanese  people would support a military  intervention in myanmar like that might  be way less than 50 that that also  wouldn't suppress life isn't fair  a lot of people  want to help  uh me and sorry want to help ukraine  fight russia and  very few people want to help myanmar  fight its own military terrorship there  are always i mean one is an internal  civil war  you know and one is an international war  with an aggressor  you know invading there are all kinds of  differences it's not as simple as just  saying racism  but you know racism might be a fact  and look as i've mentioned this before  um i count as jewish  i'm not a member of the jewish religion  but genetically i count as jewish if you  think that doesn't matter if you think  it wouldn't shape my experience in  poland in ukraine in russian it's huge  the extent to which there would be  racism directed against me cannot be  underestimated um these are intensely  intensely anti-semitic parts of the  world which was crucial to my decision  not to learn russian you know obviously  to neither learn ukrainian nor russian  but if you're going to learn ukrainian  you're going to learn enough you're  going to learn some level of russia  anyway um the two languages are so  similar that really was a choice for me  academically in terms of career and  everything else and everything would be  so different today if i if i'd gone down  that path  so you know  um  so i've got  we got we got more questions about anime  so god that's exactly what i'm saying in  anime  everyone is a [ __ ]  and everyone who watches anime is a  [ __ ] and you know i'm i'm sorry but  this is the you know  part of my own you know toxic  masculinity yeah you took the words  part of my own toxic masculinity in  attacking  video game culture and anime culture is  to say you guys are a bunch of [ __ ]  [ __ ] and you girls too sorry women  too it's equal up to women who are into  anime  women who are into video it's the same  [ __ ] it's it's even worse  you know and you know all those people  when i say [ __ ] what do i mean i mean  you're locking yourself into a perpetual  childhood you know it's it's not just  about masculine versus feminine it's  really about adulthood versus childhood  it's about a lifetime of making excuses  versus taking on responsibilities and  ambitions that don't don't they don't  really have to do with masculinity they  have to do with being a man with being  an adult  and women are welcome to to get it man i  mean to say i'm equal opportunity is an  understatement i i support women even  more doing it and we've talked about  that for at least five years in the  channel but i can remember sitting down  with melissa and talking to that at  length where it's like look all of these  things for women they're even harder  and like the level of disrespect women  get from their own parents and like you  know like when women want to step up  what they have to deal with yeah yeah so  no um yeah  shout out to larry thanks larry  i can take the comment so i got just one  uh question here from the audience i'm  seeing your comments uh come in  um  you know there's just one question here  i think i should i should i should  answer  uh sean  stone's comments  quote what is your prediction for the  future of this war isil i was wondering  if someone would would ask that  my prediction for the future of the war  is 100  based on my analysis of  joe biden  why  because at this time i do not think any  other anti-russian leader  is showing any initiative  so why am i emphasizing this to start i  may be wrong  for this reason okay there are some wild  cards there are some people other than  joe biden who could do  something decisive  i'll give you two really exciting  examples china can flip the script on  russia  china can turn around and say  they oppose imperialism whether it's  russian imperialism or anyone else's  imperialism china can stab russia in the  back and there'd be massive advantages  for china that would that would think  about the next hundred years  think about what a win it would be for  china to turn around ah you [ __ ] around  find out  oh you signed this agreement with us  five days before the beijing olympics  and now you pull this [ __ ] on ukraine  and that's our opportunity to go after  you what does china want china wants  mongolia  and they can take it and they can take  it away from russia forever  if they flip the script and stab russia  in the back now that's great power  politics baby i wasn't born yesterday i  know this [ __ ] works and we've been  through this before this wouldn't be the  first time look up history of the iron  triangle policy china has flipped the  script on russia  repeatedly actually on small-scale  proofs but one side  on a huge scale they did it once and it  defined the whole cold war period it's a  massive issue the sign of soviet split  you know that was not a cold war that  was a hot war all right red hot bullets  flew  china  can take the initiative and in doing so  they would take the initiative away from  joe biden which is exactly what they  want to do and that's why this is a  possibility worth talking about china  could also take saccharin island that  used to be part of china i'm not kidding  you know that whole area they could take  away a big chunk of siberia but yes  china wants mongolia china would like to  have more power in central asia  uzbekistan tajikistan etc they don't  need it they don't  but if china wants to dominate central  asia and mongolia mongolia is really  separate from central asia  they can do this now  and  china is the weaker partner in the the  current dyad the current you know well  it's actually it's a three-way  partnership right now china russia and  iran that's bizarre but that's the  current anti-american alliance it's a  literal military alliance they do  military exercises together  well  china has everything to gain by  backstabbing russia here including just  territory so yeah they could take the  initiative away from biden  xi jinping would be the one man to make  this  or  unless  senior members this is also possible see  i wasn't born yesterday  senior members of the communist party  who want to get rid of xi jinping  this is their opportunity to do that and  take over or they can say hey  the communist party of china is opposed  to great power imperialism  no matter who it is whether it's america  or russia that's always been their  position that's why china won't conquer  nepal that's why china you know there  are all kinds of things china could do  they're not gonna that's why china  doesn't invade myanmar like there are  whenever those things happen well  there's an option that china says no we  oppose imperialism period um even want  to be to their advantage so you could  have a circle of senior  officials in china who are tired of  waiting for xi jinping to retire  who say  this is our chance they get rid of xi  jinping they wrap themselves in the  anti-imperialist flag which every man  woman and child in china has been born  they've been raised  you know from the bottle from the milk  bottle from the cradle to the grave they  have been raised to believe that that  china is anti-imperialist  you know and then you'll have a huge  advantage huge reversal situation  including  um you will completely revive the  chinese economy by reconnecting it at  least with western europe probably with  america too probably economically  america will embrace you again if you  now turn the tables on put so that's  possible  um so this is not my prediction i'm  saying it's possibly possible either  because xi jinping himself does it or as  they say  there are people at the top of the  chinese communist party who want to get  rid of xi jinping for a variety of  reasons but just including their own  promotion they want to be the next  leaders well this is their chance and  once this chance is gone  what's gonna happen in the next 10 years  xi jinping is has said he's never going  to retire  never is a long time so yeah that's  that's possible and then the other one  worth  mentioning is um  turkey  so  i don't want to get into huge details  here i'm pro cyprus i'm pro-greece i'm  like politically i'm anti-turkey  but  similarly if turkey were to actually  march troops they were to actually send  a  large contingent of the turkish army to  go and fight russia in ukraine that  would be a huge political victory for  turkey  suddenly turkey is the darling of the  european union suddenly turkey is the  hero of the americans and the british  and the french and ukrainians obviously  you know uh there would be so much them  to gain including even short-term  economically right and russia is not  going to nuke  turkey  and by the way we're not talking about  turkey invading russia then sure russia  with new turkey you're just talking  about turkey sending peacekeeping troops  to ukrainian territory to be within  ukraine that would be a big turning  point and guess what now you've taken  the initiative away from joe biden  that's that's what it would do would  massively make turkey more powerful and  you you'd be saying to the french and  the germans  guess who's in charge  you know so there's a ton there's so  much for turkey to gain and it's obvious  uh their  elected dictator but the leader of  turkey he's he's thought about it and  he's talked to putin about it because he  and putin used to be close friends and  they're not anymore  so turkey can flip  this uh so those two significant  machiavellian footnotes my prediction  for the rest of the war  is  based on the analysis of joe biden and  the assumption that joe biden is  from here on out the only anti-russian  leader who's making any decisions so  yeah we have india being being mentioned  i've talked a lot about india in earlier  videos i'm just being honest that's why  i didn't talk about india in this video  i  there were a lot of hours talking about  politics of india india and its  political connections united states  india and china so i'm sorry i'm just  apologizing guys i'm not going to get  into india because video we're going for  but you could point that out in terms of  my assumption that that joe biden alone  is going to take the initiative well  that means france is not taking the  initiative germany is not taking  initiative like it's pathetic but this  is obvious england is not taking  initiative but sure you could also say  india it's this shows that india is not  going to take the issue and so far  that's completely the indication that  india is going to stand back and do  nothing and try to basically passively  profit from  a kind of neutrality that embraces both  sides that's so far what india has been  doing and it is quite possible the vast  majority of people in india do not care  that's hard to establish but how  how much does this matter to india  um by contrast myanmar matters much more  to india like you know this is just part  of life on earth uh but you know it's so  i'm not i for this video i'm not  seriously including india in the  analysis but that's i have a footnote  that we made other videos talking about  that at great length  so given that joe biden  has all the initiative and is making all  the decisions  in my opinion joe biden's strategy is  now completely clear  footnote  what if i'm wrong what if everything joe  biden is saying publicly is an  intentional deception and he's actually  going to do the exact opposite that  that's possible i'll mention that again  later  but based on what joe biden overtly  communicates his words and his actions  joe biden's strategy is to allow russia  to destroy  its economic and political position in  the world which the russians have done  it's for joe biden to sit back and say  russia is making itself into a pariah  russia is making itself into the new  north korea and it is in our interest  again this is not my opinion this is joe  biden's opinion i may disagree with joe  biden at many levels but joe biden's  opinion is that it is in america's  interest to sit back and allow russia to  render itself a laughing stock  subject of scorn and hatred and oblique  to render itself the next north korea  and maybe  this will bring about or hasten the end  of the putin regime  but if not  joe biden's perspective is that it's  good for america and it's good for  western europe if for the next 10 years  the next 20 years  look if putin continues to rule for 10  or 20 years that the russia will in this  sense be a burnt match they will have  spent all of the  political capital they had  and they will be reduced to a  poverty-stricken  uh pariah state that no longer so here's  the point  russia will never again  be in a position  to do what they did in syria  and if anyone experienced the  humiliation  of  the american  policy  being trumped  by the russian policy  in syria it was joe biden because that  happened on his watch with barack obama  so  russia will never again be in the  position to be king maker in syria to  control politics whether that's in  central asia the middle east around the  western world that you know in a sense  you can even interpret this  cynically as the sort of ultimate  passive-aggressive revenge for the  humiliation that america endured in  syria and that's specifically barack  obama injured in syria and that's  specifically joe biden in german syria  you can read this psychologically as joe  biden getting even for for what went  down in syria and  uh to some extent  of course it has to do with iran i know  the average american doesn't give a [ __ ]  about iran  everybody who was educated at west point  and everybody who works in the  bureaucratic elite in washington dc  and came out of [ __ ] uh what are they  coming they come out of [ __ ] uh  princeton new jersey this [ __ ] all those  guys are obsessed with iran their their  world [ __ ] revolves around oh yeah  [ __ ] that's a that's a great example the  difference between elite american  culture and the hoi polloi the masses  don't give a [ __ ] about iran but those  people are obsessed with it all those  guys  um whether they come out of uh  out of princeton  or to the actual you know military  establishment so yes  what russia did with  syria  what russia did with  iran and both of those are  still ongoing right up to including 2022  there's a sense in which that that's a  kind of that's a kind of revenge so yeah  that's joe biden's strategy  so unless someone else takes the  initiative  that's what's going to happen next  and  the the tragedy is  it's therefore in joe biden's interest  to let the status quo  in  ukraine  just continue kindling to just let this  burn and  that's my prediction for what's going to  happen  and it doesn't really matter if you pour  300 million dollars on the fire or 10  billion  dollars on the fire 10 billion is the  headline grabbing statistic that's being  bandied about these days  um  joe biden's attitude and his strategy is  the roof is on fire  let the [ __ ] burn  and  doesn't really matter  if 90 from joe biden's perspective now  my perspective doesn't matter if 90 of  the population of ukraine flees as  refugees or 50  or what  because from that  cynical machiavellian perspective  letting ukraine burn  is the most efficient way to destroy  russia and destroy the regime of  vladimir putin it's more efficient than  fighting a war it's more efficient than  cia covert ops it's more efficient than  nuclear missiles all you need to do is  sit back and let it happen  and from that incredibly cynical  perspective  nobody could care less  about the extent to which  the city of kiev  is going to become a rubble-filled  parking lot